# [[_DAILY NOTES|🗓]] Nov 27th - TGIF

## Planning the Garden  

So, I am thinking more about how I want to approach this site, and how I want to go about populating it - which, may mean gutting some of the stuff that I have put in so far.

I am getting a better sense of how Obsidian works, how Obsidian Publish works - and how to structure notes/etc and how I want things to get surfaced.

### The Seeds to Plant

Obviously this is not exhaustive, or final - but based on what I have been reading, writing about, and doing daily - some of the high level buckets are.

- "just Evan" - is basically the root of the digital garden.
	- Working in Tech
		- Working as a Dev 
			-  Career growth
			-  common mistakes for new developers
			-  biggest challenges growing as a dev, types of problems
		- Working as a Manager
		-  Tech Education
		- ADHD / Neurodiversity and work	
	- Personal
		-  Music
		-  Books
		-  Hobbies
		-  Notes
		-  etc
	-  Learning in Public

By no means an exhaustive list, but it's a starting point to start building things out.

### Avoid Fully Grown Plants

It can be tempting to want to import all of my old notes from other systems, or copy-paste full bodies of text into here, I am going to resist that temptation - unless it's my own previous blog posts/etc. 

**For example though:**

- [[Interviewing for Learning]]
- [[202011261951 NT Feedback - Speak up, but not like that| NT Feedback - Sepak up, but not like that]]
- [[Are Your Unit Tests Failing for the Expected Reasons]]

Are examples of things that I have written before, either as a blog post - or a tweet-thread, and bringing those over I don't mind.

But for longer articles, blog posts, etc written by other people - I think that is something I will want to avoid.

### Bookmarks & Links

One of the goals I'd also like to have with this, is building up a useful collection of bookmarks / links / etc to other sources, and in a way that they are discoverable, contain context, and information on why it was useful.

Instead of just blindly importing my entire [Refind Bookmark Collection](https://refind.com/evan-schultz) to here, consider:

- Have I already read it, did I find it useful, why?
- Am I sharing it? if so - why?
- Am I referring to it again for something I am doing?

