# [[ELI5]] - What is a Repository?

The [[Repository Pattern]] helps by decoupling the data access, from the domain logic of your application.

The Repository is a component - that can be a class, object, function - that interacts with the database, or data layer of the application - and provides methods to get the data.


For example

```js

UserRepository {
	getAll() { }
	getById(id) {}
}
```

Maybe when getting a user - there are a number of different database calls that may need to be made.

```js

getById(id) {
   const user = database.getUser(id);
   user.contacts = database.getContacts(id);
   // more stuff
   return user;
}
```

There are many places in the application that will need to be able to load a user, however they want to be concerned with "give me a user",  and not "how do I query the database to get the user"

It's the Repositories job to load the user from the database - and handle the logic needed for that.


```js

// file 1

PaymentService {
	releasePayment(payment) { 
	const user = database.getUser(payment.userId);
	user.contacts = database.getContacts(id);
	}
}
// file 2

InvoiceService {
	prociessInvoice(invoice) {
		const user = database.getUser(invoice.userId);
	    user.contacts = database.getContacts(id);
	}
}

```

If there is any logic to how we load a user from the database - we need to update it in multiple spots. This would quickly become difficult to maintain, and be a source of bugs.

So, we want to centralize that logic - the "how do I load from the database", so that other parts of the application don't need to worry about that.

```js
UserRepository { 
  getUser(id) { 
   const user = database.getUser(id);
   user.contacts = database.getContacts(id);
   // other logic;
   return user;
  }
}
```

Now, these things are concerned with

**give me a user** instead of  **how do I access the database to get a user**

```js
// file 1

PaymentService {
	releasePayment(payment) { 
	   const user = UserRepository.getUser(payment.userId);
	}
}

// file 2
InvoiceService {
	prociessInvoice(invoice) {
		const user = UserRepository.getUser(userId);
	}
}
```

They care that they get the user, but not where the user came from.

But, here we still have a coupling problem - it still needs to know that UserRepository is providing the user.

This tight coupling can make it difficult to other parts of our application, as it would still be needing a database to call.

But, we can solve for this by making use of [[Dependency Inversion]]

## Inverting the Relationship

At it's core DI - [[Dependency Inversion]] or [[Dependency Injection]] is instead of `PaymentService` needing to know, and call `UserRepository` directly, instead - we provide the `UserRepository` to the `PaymentsService` instead.

```js
PaymentService {
	releasePayment(userRepo,payment) { 
	   const user = userRepo.getUser(payment.userId);
	}
}

// some other file

SomeAPI(id) {
    let payment = paymentService.releasePayment(userRepo, id)
}
```

Now, the `PaymentService`  cares about

> Did I get an object, that will return me a user when I call getUser

This can be useful for mocking, testing, and also speeding up development if you need to work with mocked data quickly.

```
// TODO - exampke
```